Title 𝄀 Violets and Other Tales
Author 𝄀 Alice Ruth Moore
Release Date 𝄀 June 29, 2006  
Language 𝄀 English

VIOLETS AND OTHER TALES
by
ALICE RUTH MOORE

INTRODUCTION.

In this day when the world is fairly teeming with books,--good books,
books written with a motive, books inculcating morals, books teaching
lessons,--it seems almost a piece of presumption too great for endurance
to foist another upon the market. There is scarcely room in the literary
world for amateurs and maiden efforts; the very worthiest are sometimes
poorly repaid for their best efforts. Yet, another one is offered the
public, a maiden effort,--a little thing with absolutely nothing to
commend it, that seeks to do nothing more than amuse.

Many of these sketches and verses have appeared in print before, in
newspapers and a magazine or two; many are seeing the light of day for
the first time. If perchance this collection of idle thoughts may serve
to while away an hour or two, or lift for a brief space the load of care
from someone's mind, their purpose has been served--the author is
satisfied.

                                                          A. R. M.

CONTENTS.

  THE IDLER,                                                         166

  LOVE AND THE BUTTERFLY,                                            168

  AMID THE ROSES,                                                    176


[[WORK]]
THE IDLER.

  An idle lingerer on the wayside's road,
  He gathers up his work and yawns away;
  A little longer, ere the tiresome load
  Shall be reduced to ashes or to clay.

  No matter if the world has marched along,
  And scorned his slowness as it quickly passed;
  No matter, if amid the busy throng,
  He greets some face, infantile at the last.

  His mission? Well, there is but one,
  And if it is a mission he knows it, nay,
  To be a happy idler, to lounge and sun,
  And dreaming, pass his long-drawn days away.

  So dreams he on, his happy life to pass
  Content, without ambitions painful sighs,
  Until the sands run down into the glass;
  He smiles--content--unmoved and dies.

  And yet, with all the pity that you feel
  For this poor mothling of that flame, the world;
  Are you the better for your desperate deal,
  When you, like him, into infinitude are hurled?


[[WORK]]
LOVE AND THE BUTTERFLY.

  I heard a merry voice one day
  And glancing at my side,
  Fair Love, all breathless, flushed with play,
  A butterfly did ride.
  "Whither away, oh sportive boy?"
  I asked, he tossed his head;
  Laughing aloud for purest joy,
  And past me swiftly sped.

  Next day I heard a plaintive cry
  And Love crept in my arms;
  Weeping he held the butterfly,
  Devoid of all its charms.
  Sweet words of comfort, whispered I
  Into his dainty ears,
  But Love still hugged the butterfly,
  And bathed its wounds with tears.


[[WORK]]
AMID THE ROSES.

  There is tropical warmth and languorous life
    Where the roses lie
    In a tempting drift
  Of pink and red and golden light
  Untouched as yet by the pruning knife.
  And the still, warm life of the roses fair
    That whisper "Come,"
    With promises
  Of sweet caresses, close and pure
  Has a thorny whiff in the perfumed air.
  There are thorns and love in the roses' bed,
    And Satan too
    Must linger there;
  So Satan's wiles and the conscience stings,
  Must now abide--the roses are _dead_.
